# Testing Functional Logic

In this exercise, we will begin our exploration of the testing techniques we will need to understand in order to be an effective engineer.

The topics currently covered in this section are:

1. Testing pure functional logic
2. Testing functional logic with dates
3. Testing functional logic with random values

## Needed Tools

1. Programming Language/Platform
2. Code Editor
2. Linter
3. Test Harness
4. Code Coverage Tool

## Setup

1. Ensure that `node >= 8.6` is installed
2. Run `npm install`
3. Run `npm test`, you should expect to see all tests passing and some code coverage
4. Run `npm run report` to see the coverage reports
5. Run `npm run test:watch` to have tests automatically rerun when changes are made

## Exercise

### Goals

Our goals in the following exercise are:

1. Learn how to reach 100% coverage on lines and branches for pure functional logic
2. Learn how to test functional logic with changing values like dates and random values
3. Get hands on practice with a modern testing harness, tools, and techniques

### Steps

In order to achieve these goals, we will follow these steps:

1. Familiarize yourself with the coverage report by looking at the web page generated by `npm run report`. You can simply refresh the web page after running your tests to see the updated coverage.
2. Familiarize yourself with the test watcher by running `npm run test:watch` and making a change to a file or pressing `rs` and watching the linter and tests be rerun.
3. Aim for 100% line and branch coverage of the logic in `src/build_binary_ipv4_address.js` by adding tests to `tests/build_binary_ipv4_address.test.js`.
4. Look at the pieces of logic in `date_logic.js` and determine which logic is possible to be tested by a pure functional test and write those tests.
5. Look at the pieces of logic in `random_logic.js` and determine which logic is possible to be tested by a pure functional test and write those tests.

### Conclusion

Congratulations! You've just finished the first testing exercise on writing functional tests. We're focusing on functional logic because it will be the foundation of all of our future software.